More documentation on shuffleboard custom plugins (#582)
wpilibsuite/frc-docs: source/docs/software/wpilib-tools/shuffleboard/custom-widgets/creating-custom-data-types.rst

   import java.util.Map;

   public final class MyPoint2D extends ComplexData<MyPoint2D> {

      private final double x;
      private final double y;

      // Constructor should take all the different fields needed and assign them to their corresponding instance variables.
      public Point(double x, double y) {
         this.x = x;
         this.y = y;
      }

      @Override
      public Map<String, Object> asMap() {
         return Map.of("x", this.x, "y", this.y);
      }
    }

Other methods can be added to retrieve or edit fields and instance variables, however, it is good practice to make these classes immutable to prevent changing the source data objects. Instead, you can make a new copy object instead of manipulating the existing object. For example, if we wanted to change the y coordinate of our point, we can define the following method:

.. code-block:: java

   public MyPoint2D withY(double newY) {
      return new MyPoint2D(this.x, newY);
   }

This creates a new ``MyPoint2D`` object and returns it with the new y-coordinate. Same can be done for changing the x coordinate.

Creating a Data Type
---------------------

> There are two different data types that can be made, Simple data types involve data that contains only one field (ie. a single number or string) whereas Complex data types require multiple data fields (ie. multiple strings, multiple numbers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two different data types that can be made: Simple data types that have only one field (ie. a single number or string), and Complex data types that have multiple data fields (ie. multiple strings, multiple numbers).
```

In order to define a simple data type, the class must extend the ``SimpleDataType<DataType>`` class with the data type needed and implement the ``getDefaultValue()`` method. In this example, we will use a double as our simple data type.

.. code-block:: java

   public final class MyDoubleDataType extends SimpleDataType<Double> {

>       private static final String NAME = "Douoble";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      private static final String NAME = "Double";
```

      private MyDataType() {
         super(NAME, Double.class);
      }

      @Override

>       public double getDefaultValue() {

Reviewer: Need to return the boxed type, unfortunately.

```suggestion
      public Double getDefaultValue() {
```

We will use our MyPoint2D class as an example to see what a complex data type class would look like.

.. code-block:: java

   public final class PointDataType extends ComplexDataType<MyPoint2D> {

      private static final String NAME = "MyPoint2D";
      public static final PointDataType Instance = new PointDataType();

      private PointDataType() {
         super(NAME, MyPoint2D.class);
      }

      @Override
      public Function<Map<String, Object>, MyPoint2D> fromMap() {
         return map -> {
               return new MyPoint2D((double) map.getOrDefault("x", 0.0), (double) map.getOrDefault("y", 0.0));
         };
      }

      @Override
      public MyPoint2D getDefaultValue() {
         // use default values of 0 for X and Y coordinate
         return new MyPoint2D(0, 0);
      }

   }

The following code above works as noted:

The ``fromMap()`` method creates a new MyPoint2D using the values in the NetworkTable entry it is bound to.
The ``getOrDefault`` method will return 0.0 if it cannot get the entry values. The ``getDefaultValue`` will return a new ``MyPoint2D`` object if no source is present.

Exporting Data Type To Plugin
-----------------------------

> In order to have the data type be recognized by the Shuffleboard, the plugin must export them by overriding the ``getDataTypes`` method.

Reviewer: Just "Shuffleboard", not "the Shuffleboard"

```suggestion
In order to have the data type be recognized by Shuffleboard, the plugin must export them by overriding the ``getDataTypes`` method.
```

Creating Custom Data Types
==========================

> Widgets allow us to control and visualize different types of data. This data can be numerical in the form to integers, double, longs, etc..., or less primitive forms of data, such as Java objects, or data involving multiple fields. In order to display these types of data using widgets, it is helpful to create a container class for them.

Reviewer 2: `This data can be numerical in the form to integers, double, longs, etc..., or less primitive forms of data, such as Java objects, or data involving multiple fields.` This is awkwardly worded

> It is not nessecary to create your own Data Class if the widget will handle single fieled data types such as doubles, arrays, or strings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is not necessary to create your own Data Class if the widget will handle single fielded data types such as doubles, arrays, or strings.
```

Creating The Data Class
-----------------------
In this example, we will create a custom data type for a 2D Point and its x and y coordinates. In order to create a custom data type class,

> it must extend the abstract class `ComplexData <https://github.com/wpilibsuite/shuffleboard/blob/master/api/src/main/java/edu/wpi/first/shuffleboard/api/data/ComplexData.java>`_. Your

Reviewer 2: Do all custom data types need to extend ComplexData?

Author: A custom data type should only be created if it involves multiple fields. A "SimpleData" class would simply mean that the data type only deals with one field in which case, we can use the [shuffleboard datatypes](https://github.com/wpilibsuite/shuffleboard/tree/76273d484c12a50356891b0ba7f7890b2ef25bc6/api/src/main/java/edu/wpi/first/shuffleboard/api/data/types) for whatever data type that one field is.

      }

      @Override
      public Map<String, Object> asMap() {
         return Map.of("x", x, "y", y);
      }
   }

It is also good practise to override the default ``equals`` and ``hashcode`` methods to ensure that different objects are considered equivalent when their fields are the same.
The ``asMap()`` method should return the data represented in a simple Map object as it will be mapped to the NetworkTable entry it corresponds to. In this case, we can represent the point as its X and Y coordinates and return a ``Map`` containing them.

.. code-block:: java

   import edu.wpi.first.shuffleboard.api.data.ComplexData;

   import java.util.Map;

   public final class MyPoint2D extends ComplexData<MyPoint2D> {

      private final double x;
      private final double y;

      // Constructor should take all the different fields needed and assign them to their corresponding instance variables.
      public Point(double x, double y) {
         this.x = x;
         this.y = y;
      }

      @Override
      public Map<String, Object> asMap() {
         return Map.of("x", this.x, "y", this.y);
      }

      @Override
      public boolean equals(Object Object) {

>          ..

Reviewer 2: Should flesh out, since it probably only takes one line

Author: I'll just take it out since I've already explained that 

> It is also good practise to override the default ``equals`` and ``hashcode`` methods to ensure that different objects are considered equivalent when their fields are the same.

      }
    }

Other methods can be added to retrieve or edit fields and instance variables, however, it is good practise to make these classes immutable to prevent changing the source data objects.

> Instead, you can make a new copy object instead of manipulating the existing object. For example, if we wanted to change the y coordinate of our point, we can define the following method:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other methods can be added to retrieve or edit fields and instance variables, however, it is good practice to make these classes immutable to prevent changing the source data objects. Instead, you can make a new copy object instead of manipulating the existing object. For example, if we wanted to change the y coordinate of our point, we can define the following method:
```

.. code-block:: java

   public MyPoint2D withY(double newY) {
      return new MyPoint2D(this.x, newY);
   }

This creates a new ``MyPoint2D`` object and returns it with the new y-coordinate. Same can be done for changing the x coordinate.

> Creating a Data Types

Reviewer 2: It feels like this section should be at the beginning of this page. 

```suggestion
Creating a Data Type
```

      private final double x;
      private final double y;

      //Constructor should take all the different fields needed and assign them to their corresponding instance variables.
      public Point(double x, double y) {
         this.x = x;
         this.y = y;
      }

      @Override
      public Map<String, Object> asMap() {
         return Map.of("x", this.x, "y", this.y);
      }

      @Override
      public boolean equals(MyPoint2D point) {
         // Checks this object and point object for equal x and y values
         if (this.x == point.asMap().get("x") && this.y == point.asMap().get("y")) {
            return true;
         } else {
            return false;
         }
      }
    }

Other methods can be added to retrieve or edit fields and instance variables, however, it is good practise to make these classes immutable to prevent changing the source data objects.
Instead, you can make a new copy object instead of manipulating the existing object. For example, if we wanted to change the y coordinate of our point, we can define the following method:

.. code-block:: java

   public MyPoint2D withX(double newY) {
      return new MyPoint2D(this.x, newY);
   }

> This creates a new ``MyPoint2D`` object and returns it with the new y-coordinate.

Reviewer: You mix `X` and `Y` in this example. Keep it consistent, and mention that the same should be done for the other field

Creating a Data Types
---------------------
There are two different data types that can be made, Simple data types involve data that contains only one field (ie. a single number or string) whereas Complex data types require multiple data fields (ie. multiple strings, multiple numbers).

In order to define a simple data type, the class must extend the ``SimpleDataType<DataType>`` class with the data type needed and implement the ``getDefaultValue()`` method. In this example, we will use a double as our simple data type.

.. code-block:: java

>    public final class MyDataType extends SimpleDataType<double> {

Reviewer: Naming should be `DoubleType` (or maybe `ExampleDoubleType`). `MyDataType` is a poor name when it's for a concrete example.

Can't do generics on primitive types; you need to use the boxed class `Double`

      private static final String NAME = "double";

      private MyDataType() {
         super(NAME, double.class);
      }

      @Override
      public double getDefaultValue() {
         return 0.0;
      }

   }

> The class constructor is set to private to ensure that only a single instance of the data type will exist.

Reviewer: :+1:

In order to define a complex data type, the class must extend the ``ComplexDataType`` class and override the ``fromMap()`` and ``getDefaultValue()`` methods.
We will use our MyPoint2D class as an example to see what a complex data type class would look like.

.. code-block:: java

   public final class PointDataType extends ComplexDataType<MyPoint2D> {

      private static final String NAME = "MyPoint2D";
      public static final PointDataType Instance = new PointDataType();

>       public PointDataType() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      private PointDataType() {
```

         super(NAME, MyPoint2D.class);
      }

      @Override
      public Function<Map<String, Object>, MyPoint2D> fromMap() {
         return map -> {
               return new MyPoint2D((double) map.getOrDefault("x", 0.0), (double) map.getOrDefault("y", 0.0));
         };
      }

      @Override
      public MyPoint2D getDefaultValue() {
         // use default values of 0 for X and Y coordinate
         return new MyPoint2D(0, 0);
      }

   }

The following code above works as noted:

The ``fromMap()`` method creates a new MyPoint2D using the values in the NetworkTable entry it is bound to.
The ``getOrDefault`` method will return 0.0 if it cannot get the entry values. The ``getDefaultValue`` will return a new ``MyPoint2D`` object if no source is present.

Exporting Data Type To Plugin
-----------------------------
In order to have the data type be recognized by the Shuffleboard, the plugin must export them by overriding the ``getDataTypes`` method.
For example,

.. code-block:: java

   public class MyPlugin extends Plugin {

      @Override
      public List<DataType> getDataTypes() {

>          ImmutableList.of(PointDataType.Instance);

Reviewer: This could also be `List.of` (added in Java 10, after Shuffleboard was first written)

Creating Custom Data Types
==========================

Widgets allow us to control and visualize different types of data. This data can be numerical in the form to integers, double, longs, etc..., or less primitive forms of data, such as Java objects, or data involving multiple fields. In order to display these types of data using widgets, it is helpful to create a container class for them.
It is not nessecary to create your own Data Class if the widget will handle single fieled data types such as doubles, arrays, or strings.

Creating The Data Class
-----------------------

In this example, we will create a custom data type for a 2D Point and its x and y coordinates. In order to create a custom data type class,

> it must extend the abstract class `ComplexData <https://github.com/wpilibsuite/shuffleboard/blob/master/api/src/main/java/edu/wpi/first/shuffleboard/api/data/ComplexData.java>`_. Your

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't be on a newline

      }
   }

It is also good practise to override the default ``equals`` and ``hashcode`` methods to ensure that different objects are considered equivalent when their fields are the same.
The ``asMap()`` method should return the data represented in a simple Map object as it will be mapped to the NetworkTable entry it corresponds to. In this case, we can represent the point as its X and Y coordinates and return a ``Map`` containing them.

.. code-block:: java

   import edu.wpi.first.shuffleboard.api.data.ComplexData;

   import java.util.Map;

   public class MyPoint2D extends ComplexData<MyPoint2D> {

      private final double x;
      private final double y;

      //Constructor should take all the different fields needed and assign them to their corresponding instance variables.
      public Point(double x, double y) {
         this.x = x;
         this.y = y;
      }

      @Override
      public Map<String, Object> asMap() {
         return Map.of("x", this.x, "y", this.y);
      }

      @Override
      public boolean equals(MyPoint2D point) {
         // Checks if the x and y values are the same in the point being passed in and the object this method is performed on.

>          // The equals method checks to make sure the content of the objects is the same, whereas the == operator checks if they point to the same memory location.

Reviewer 3: Code blocks can and *should* have new lines. This comment is too long

Creating Custom Data Types
==========================

> Widgets allow us to control and visualize different types of data. This data could be integers and doubles or even Java Objects.. In order to display these types of data using widgets, it is helpful to create a container class for them.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Widgets allow us to control and visualize different types of data. This data could be integers and doubles or even Java Objects. In order to display these types of data using widgets, it is helpful to create a container class for them.
```
